Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o 
Neither Account Numbers nor Customs Value or Shipment Insurance Values are allowed on 
the Transport Label 
o 
Moreover, any data elements not explicitly stated and required on Global SOP Standard  
Transport Label are, by definition, not allowed and must be excluded. 
 
 
5.13.1. Conditional Local Information 
In some countries, additional information is legally required on the label, usually for a small percentage of the 
shipping volume. Any information of this kind may be added to these specifications.  
 
Depending on the size of the information required, it may be inserted (sometimes making the label longer or 
even requiring a separate label to be used). Any potential separate label has to carry the Piece Identifier in 
human-readable form and respective barcode in addition. Wherever such a case fits into one of the existing 
segments it is described in the respective context.  
All other cases are described in this chapter. 
 
5.13.1.1. 
Tax IDs (Brazil) - Conditional 
 
Labels for packages shipped from addresses in Brazil need to display the Tax IDs (Called CNPJ/CPF 
and IE/RG) for both origin and destination: this is an approved exception, strictly subject to central 
endorsement, through the DHL EXPRESS Label Certification Body. 
 
Upon DHL EXPRESS’ approval, these numbers need to be printed as part of the respective addresses (if free 
address lines are available) or to be printed in segment 17, with at least the font size of the consignee address. 
 
Note: In this special case (BR), the TAX ID can also be understood and represented as a Shipment Reference 
with the associated Reference Type, in which case it would not be placed in this segment but rather in the Piece 
/ Shipment Reference segment. 
 
 
5.13.2. Dangerous Goods and Other Special Loads 
Dangerous goods and other special loads (Live Animals – Perishable Cargo – Human Remains) by law require 
additional information that may be printed in the shipment information segment or as a separate label.  
DHL Express does not offer an unconditional transport of dangerous goods and other special loads. 
Prohibited Commodities are excluded from transportation. 
 
 
The “Prohibited and Restricted Commodities Policy10” defines, categorizes and lists what can and cannot be 
transported by DHL EXPRESS. Goods are therein defined into two categories: 
• 
Prohibited 
• 
Restricted 
 
For additional information on Mandatory / Conditional Legal Entries required on the eWaybill or Transport 
Label for Special Loads, refer to the following documents (DHL Guidelines and Regulations): 
 
10 The definition and listing of “Prohibited and Restricted Commodities” are subject, at any time, to updates 
through the corresponding Regulators. Please always refer to the latest International Standard version for 
use purposes. 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
37