Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2. Core Business Principles 
DHL Labels (e.g. Transport Labels and eWaybills) are key Network documents as they enable and support 
efficient, physical handling of the shipment through to its delivery destination.  
These Transport Label Specifications represent a Label Layout Specifications Document. They do NOT specify 
or define the corresponding data elements (defined in DHL EXPRESS data Model) but solely, the requirements 
that must be met by those (or systems) creating DHL-compliant labels.   
4.3. Label Certification1 
A DHL Label Certification is a pre-condition for a Transport Label to be released for production and use within 
the DHL EXPRESS Network. Five core elements are essential to that purpose: 
• Physical Label Layout (template) 
o Customer labels must meet the Layout Requirements in order to optimize data readability and 
processing 
o Label Layouts are specified in this document and also cater for customer-specific requirements, 
through continuous updates based on customer feedback 
 
• Data / Information  
o This element is vital because it covers the correct translation of the customer-driven (commercial) 
service order into specific DHL Handling Information paired with the latest global reference data 
o Due to its complexity and criticality, DHL strongly recommends this be NOT developed or managed 
by customers -> therefore it is not detailed in these specifications 
o Not all transport order data supplied by the customer must appear on the label. While a few data 
elements (e.g. product) must always be coded, only product features that may be relevant for 
sorting and delivery processes are shown on the label.  
o The data and information on the Transport Label does not replace the need for the transport 
order data. It enables however the piece to be physically moved through the network without the 
need of the corresponding data.  
o DHL offers, its customers, effective lookup solutions (e.g. GLSlabeldata) for automatically obtaining 
the correct set of label data corresponding to the ordered service 
• Rendering Solution 
o DHL offers, its customers, effective rendering solutions (e.g. GLS Docrender) 
o DHL solutions are strongly recommended because they use the latest business logic, templates 
and data sources, which can’t be guaranteed by other solutions (e.g. customer-owned) -> as a 
guiding principle, GLS is mandatory and ONLY GLS-rendered labels are acceptable  
o Business owners of Label Rendering / Printing Applications must ensure compliance to the valid 
Global SOP Standards is achieved 
 
• Printing Solution 
o The minimal requirements regarding printing quality are specified in this document => they are to 
be met by customers prior to any usage in DHL’s network 
o DHL’s Label Certification Competence Center offers specialized support to customers in all 
development steps towards a compliant label  
 
1 For details on the Certification Process and/ or related Criteria, refer to the specific Global SOP Label 
Certification Guidelines 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
10