Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2. Product Name, Product Content Code and Version Name  
1 
 
 
 
1 
This section contains the name of the Product used (e.g. EXPRESS WORLDWIDE) and the three-letter Product 
Content Code (e.g. WPX or EPL), in accordance with the DHL Express global product portfolio.  
 
  This Reference Data is maintained in DHL’s Global Reference Databases. 
 
5.2.1. 
Product Name (Conditional) 
The Global Product Name officially specifies the product under which the underlying transport service has been 
sold to the customer and is to be printed here with the associated format “Product Short Name”. This is a text 
string in upper-case letters, up to 20 chars long (reason for the Short Name). It may contain the full set of 7 bit 
standard chars, including white space, upper/lower case chars and symbols such as a colon (“:”).  
The conditional qualifier is applicable to the “Compact Label”, which use requires a formal approval (see below). 
5.2.1.1. 
Highly-Compact Label3 
There are scenarios when, due to customer requirements for extra info or elements (e.g. additional barcodes) 
on the label (e.g. in the customer-owned segment), there is the need to maximize the compactness of the info 
on the remaining Label segments in order to free up space elsewhere.  
In such cases and upon special approval by DHL EXPRESS, the Product Name may be omitted. 
 
5.2.2. 
Product Content Code (mandatory) 
This is DHL’s internal code for the product under which a certain transport order will be processed. It always 
consists of 3 upper-case characters. Different products may have the same Product Content Code 
For declarable shipments, the Product Content Code must be printed in reverse video 4format (see image below, 
in 5.2.3). 
Product Name and Product Content Code can be determined based on the required (i) Service level (e.g. pre-
9:00) and (ii) DOC or NON-DOC shipment.  
 
5.2.3. 
Printing Application, Date and Label Certification Identifier (mandatory) 
 
The information herewith required has a mandatory char and aims at identifying both the label Printing 
Application, the Printing Date and the associated Label Certification Identifier.  
 
3 Refer to section 8.1.6 for further specific details on the Highly-Compact Label 
4 Refer to Definitions section 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
17