Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.9.3. 
  Inbound Sort Code (Conditional) 
12 
 
DHL Inbound Sort Codes are mandatory and must be printed on the label when defined (not the case for all 
inbound facilities). 
 
  The Inbound Sort Code consists of up to 4 alphanumeric chars (numerals or capital letters). It depends on 
destination country, Postcode and product and can serve as either: 
 
• Consolidator: various facilities having the same Inbound Sort Code 
• Separator: A facility sub-divided in areas, based on Postal Code and/or product 
 
DHL may not require the Inbound Sort Code for all destinations, in which cases this field is to be populated with 
a “.”.This is equivalent to the statement that "." is only used if an effective attempt to look a sort code up returned 
no value. 
 
Whenever no attempt was made to determine the Inbound Sort Code, then this should be left blank. "." This will 
also indicate to DHL that the label needs to be re-printed. 
 
 
5.10. 
 
Product Features 
5.10.1. Handling-relevant Feature Codes - HFC (Conditional) 
 
Product Features encompass Handling and Date/Time Delivery features, which are shown on the label to 
support DHL internal operational procedures. 
13 
14 
15 
   Day 
  C – DTP   
   31 
 Time 
X09 
 
Only product features which are handling-relevant (i.e. impact the sorting and/or delivery processes) are shown 
on the label (and printed left aligned). The Handling Feature Codes (e.g. “DTP”), translated from the chosen 
Product and Service Codes (e.g. “DD”) are printed in reverse video format in this segment. 
 
When defined through the Service Codes, HFCs are mandatory and must be printed as per the Global 
Standard. 
 
The translation from commercial products and services to handling codes is based on DHL’s reference 
data (e.g. tools provided by DHL Express to our customers offer this capability). 
 
Product features that are not handling-relevant appear only on the accompanying documentation, such as the 
electronic information (EDI), the pickup- and delivery lists. 
 
5.10.2. Delivery Date (conditional) 
This field shows the delivery date feature (to be coded mandatorily in the routing barcode - – refer to section 
3.12.1).  
14 
15 
   Day 
   31 
 Time 
X09 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
24