Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6.  Consignor’s Contact (Conditional) 
Shipper contact details are still critical operational information and will be captured and stored, in accordance 
with GDPR, as part of the shipment preparation process. 
 
As part of DHL’s ongoing process and systems improvements, this information is, however, no longer required 
to be printed on the Transport Label. It is made available electronically to our relevant employees and operators 
to perform their tasks and deliver the service expected of our customers. 
 
 
 Note: in exceptional circumstances (e.g. for compliance with international regulations like the ICAO or IATA for goods 
with UN Code UN3373) and only upon formal approval, specific contact details may have to be printed on the Transport 
Label. 
 
5.7.  Service Area Code of Origin (mandatory) 
DHL Express needs the Service Area Code of Origin printed in this segment. This is a 3-digit, upper-case 
letter, of a locally defined and globally recognized area where DHL services are provided. This data is maintained 
in DHL Global Reference Databases. 
 
 
5.8.  
‘Ship To’ Address (mandatory) 
 
Each piece requires a Ship To address. This is the agreed Delivery Point.  
 
The word “To” may be written in local language, however for export shipments the English word “To” must 
appear as well. Alternatively, both languages (English and domestic) may be used, separated with a “/”. 
 
The Ship To address should be emphasized by adding hooks, i.e. thicker corners. The recommended size of 
the hooks is 4 x 4mm and the line thickness is > 0.5mm. The area contained by the hooks shall include the 
contact information. 
 
For the structure of the Ship To address, refer to section 3.4.1 Ship From address 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
21