Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Definitions 
4.1. Definitions 
The following definitions are specific to this document: 
Title 
Description 
DHL Transport 
Label 
The DHL Transport Label is a label which is printed and attached to a piece 
and contains all handling-relevant information i.e. the one required to ship a 
piece from a Shipper to a Consignee. It includes piece/shipment 
identification, address information and DHL handling information.  
This generic title includes: 
• 
ESS Label (includes all information, mostly a Customer Produced 
Document as part of the Shipment Preparation Process, requiring no 
DHL re-labeling). It also includes specific sections for Customers to 
capture their bespoke information. 
• 
Network Label -> transport label without addresses and without 
customers’ own segments 
• 
Routing Label -> small label containing DHL Handling Information only 
and used by DHL to complement information provided by customers. 
eWaybill 
A document type reflecting agreed “conditions of contract of transport” 
A Waybill is, by definition, NOT a label. 
This doc-type was historically called “Archive Doc” and later “Waybill Doc”.  
Multi-ply Waybill 
(Multiply Waybill) 
Business term used as a reference for DHL's own Waybills doc-type (also 
named “Manual Waybill”). 
The term “Multiply Waybill” denotes both the empty and filled-in forms. 
Reprinting 
Term for a 1:1 replacement of a (damaged) label by a new one 
Relabeling 
Term for tagging a package with a new label with additional or changed 
supplementary information, e.g. Manual Sort Information.  
License Plate 
A Unique Identifier (code) assigned to a single transport unit by its issuer, in 
accordance with ISO/IEC 15459-1. It is the Leading Industry Standard 
Worldwide and acts as primary Piece Identifier (PID) standard for DHL 
Express. As such, DHL’s equivalent business term is “Piece Identifier”. 
Shipment 
Identifier 
Generic term for DHL Express identifiers at shipment level. Currently 
implemented with the 10 NUM format (9 digits, plus 10th digit calculated with 
MOD7). Other terms used within DHL are:  
• 
Air Waybill number (Air Express) 
• 
Waybill number (Air and Road Express) 
• 
Shipment number (Road Express) 
• 
Consignment number (Road Express, Freight), when the format 
matches the standard 10 NUM with MOD7 check-digit, defined 
above. 
Reverse Video 
Format 
A technique used in documents, whereby white characters are printed on a 
black background, as a visual aid to highlight an important section or piece of 
text.  
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
9