Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.16. 
Customer Segment 
 
This section is reserved and can be used by the shipper (or customer) for information and own purposes (e.g. 
for parties involved in the logistics chain). Its standard location is directly above the Piece Identifier segment. 
These contents are transparent for DHL. 
 
DHL imposes no restrictions in size or content of this segment, as long as the information printed in it does not 
interfere with any other information on the label.  
 
This section may contain barcodes (see sample image below) but none are allowed that could be interpreted as 
one of the following content types: 
 
 
• DHL Waybill Number (10 digits, numeric, barcode in Code 39) 
 
• DHL Routing Code (Data Identifier 2L / Application Identifier 403) 
 
• Piece Identifier (Data Identifier J, 1J …, nJ / Application Identifier 00) 
 
NOTES. The objective of the highest-possible level of standardization is valid also for this segment. In specific 
exceptional business scenarios, upon customer requirement, a relocation of the Customer Segment is possible, 
requires however an explicit approval from DHL EXPRESS.  
• 
The potential new location must remain in the lower area of the label, below the Handling Feature Codes’ 
segment, close to the existing barcode segments, ideally directly above segment 20 (Waybill barcode) 
• 
A different approach is to locate the customer-owned segment beyond the boundaries of the standard 
layout. In this case, the customer-owned segment is no longer part of the label and shall not be defined 
herein. To reinforce that fact, DHL requires that a thick line, with a min of 2 mm, be drawn to visually  
separate the specific boundaries of the label from external elements. To prevent detrimental effects on 
the PID scanning performance, only locations above the label upper boundary are acceptable. 
5.17. 
Piece Identifier Segment 
 
Each piece of each shipment shipped with DHL requires a Piece Identifier as its unique identifier. Any ISO 
15459-compliant Piece Identifier may be used.  
 
5.17.1. Content 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
42