Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.11.2.1. 
“Shipment Weight” – Shipper Declared vs DHL Actual  
Weight, as provided by the customer (e.g. “Original Shipper Declared Weight” through EDI / 2D Code / Manual 
Waybill), has to be printed on the label if the printing occurs prior to DHL Reweigh processing, in this field. 
 
When no weight was available at the time of printing the label, a “.” shall be printed to indicate that fact.  
 
Customs recommends that, for easier customs processing, the full shipment weight i.e. the total weight of the 
pieces making up the shipment, be printed on each package. This should be done where this information is 
available when printing the label. 
 
Note: the sum of all pieces weight is not always known at the time of printing a label. For this reason and in such 
circumstances, it is acceptable that only the last piece label contains the set [Piece Weight] / [Total Piece 
Weight]. 
  
Any customer automation application has to ensure that at least the last package of a shipment 
contains the shipment weight. Wherever the shipment weight is known prior to printing the first label, 
it must be printed on all labels. 
 
 
5.11.2.2. 
Piece Weight  
 
Piece Weight is mandatory for Remote Pickup shipments and must be printed whenever available for multi-
piece shipments. 
 
Piece weight may be legally required in some countries, for health and security reasons. 
 
5.11.2.3. 
Printing Structure 
 
a) 
Measuring Unit 
The weight can be stated in kg or in lbs, alternatively. The measuring unit has to be printed following the 
weight value. In case of combined piece/shipment weight it is only required behind the shipment weight. 
The measuring unit for both weights must be the same in all cases. 
b) 
Value  
The weight value must be a valid number, with no more than one decimal digit  
c) 
Header Text 
• 
The header text for a piece weight is “Piece Weight” 
• 
The header text for a shipment weight is “Shipment Weight” 
• 
Where both piece and shipment weights are printed, the header text is to be contracted to 
“Piece/Shipment Weight”. 
 
Abbreviations such as “Shpt” for Shipment or “Pce” for Piece are allowed. For domestic shipments, the English 
terms may be translated into local language. 
 
5.11.2.4. 
Examples 
Piece / Shipment Weight:  
a) Printing both piece and shipment weight 
5.5 / 33.8 kg  
 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
28