Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
The method for storing data in 2D Codes is specified in the ISO/IEC 15434 (specification and syntax for 
automatic identification and data capture techniques commonly used in 2D barcodes such as Data Matrix.). This 
ISO/IEC standard features the possible use of multiple segments with different contents and might be seen as 
the file system of the code. 
 
      The following segments are available and they are always in the sequence below. Only the first is mandatory   
      but both the public and open segments are in systematical use by DHL EXPRESS: 
• 
Public segment: standardized package data shared between customer, service providers and DHL 
• 
Open segment: open segment in pseudo EDIFACT DHL data structure shared between service 
providers and DHL 
• 
Customer segment: segments with customer data not used by DHL 
5.12.1. Customer Data 
The 2D symbol under use contains encoded operational data, which is obtained through the concatenation of 
the above listed segments’ data. 
 
The exhaustive list of encoded shipment data elements can be referenced through the Global SOP “Data Matrix 
2D Specifications”.  
 
 
5.13. 
Additional Shipment Information 
Customers may wish, in certain cases and for various reasons, to add and/or print additional information (e.g.  
a country-mandatory Export Declaration) on the label. The same may apply for internal reasons. 
 
The Global Label Standard is equipped with distinct segments that cater for the need of additional information.  
 
The image below identifies those info elements (which extend the format, previously limited to the area adjacent 
– segment 17a - to the Waybill Barcode). 
 
 
9 Refer to sections 5.18 and 8.1 for further details on this capability and related specifications. 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
34