Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. LOOSE BBX LABEL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
7.1. Purpose 
The purpose of this document is to supplement the current Global SOP procedures with finer detail relative to 
the specification, design, production and use of a Network-compliant Loose BBX Transport Label. 
7.2. Objective 
This guideline shall ensure that stakeholders: 
• understand What a Loose BBX Transport Label is and its purpose, in the context of DHL Express 
business segment 
• know How to create a Loose BBX Transport Label and How to use it 
• understand and comply with the business requirements for Label data and information 
• understand the flexibility allowed by the design and its corresponding constraints 
• are able to identify Label issues or non-compliance and initiate mitigation actions 
7.3. Scope   
This reference guide is directed at all DHL Functions and Facilities that are involved in the production or use of 
Loose BBX Transport Labels and corresponding transportation and handling of Shipments, with specific 
reference to the: 
• 
DHL Loose BBX Transport Label 
• 
All related Architectural elements (e.g. Identifiers, Barcodes) 
• 
Label Certification Guidelines 
 
7.4.  Layout Overview (all segments) 
The circled coloured numbers in the image below correspond to individual segments, which are described in 
detail in the following sections. 
NOTE: the Loose BBX Transport Label corresponds, in its essence, to a standard Transport Label, where a new 
Custom’s Routing Address segment, identified through the new sub-segments 25-27, was added. Thus, the 
below layout will only cover the added sub-segments, everything else remains standard (refer to page 12 for 
related definitions). 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
57