Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.11. 
Standard Shipment information 
 
The Shipment Information section contains the following information elements: 
 
5.11.1. Piece / Shipment Reference (optional) 
 
A customer may refer to a package using specific identifier(s) (e.g. reference codes, which consist of sets of 
alphanumeric chars). A Shipper’s Reference is one type of the more generic Shipment References, which is 
under customer’s responsibility to manage. 
 
Shipment References may be printed on the label, ideally in cases where DHL has received those references 
with the transport order. All formats supported by the solution agreed with DHL can be printed on the label as 
well. 
 
Piece and Shipment References are usually qualified by specific Reference Type Codes (ex-Reference 
Qualifiers), which give them a specific meaning. Refer to DHL EXPRESS Piece/Shipment Reference Standard. 
 
5.11.2. Piece / Shipment Weight (conditional) 
 
The weight of all single pieces (“Shipment Weight” = weight of all pieces building up a shipment) and of the 
corresponding single(s) piece are to be printed here.  
The lack of Shipment Weight may lead to issues in Customs processing and is therefore mandatory for 
at least one package of each dutiable shipment.  
As a minimum requirement, the label provided with the last piece must contain both the sum of the weight 
of all pieces belonging to the shipment (legacy term “Shipment Weight”) and its corresponding single 
piece weight. 
 
Example:8/25 for the last piece label of a shipment, where “8” corresponds to the single piece weight and 
“25” corresponds to the sum of all single pieces building up the associated shipment. The initial piece 
labels would have the value “7/.”, where the “.” indicates that the total weight is not yet known. 
For single-piece shipments, the weight needs to be printed only once (e.g. 13.4 kg instead of 13.4/13.4 kg)  
The Transport Label always has to show the Dead Weight, NOT a calculated volumetric weight, 
should it be available at the time of printing the label 
 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
27