Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b) Printing shipment weight only 7 
Shipment Weight:  
33.8 kg 
 
 
Piece Weight:  
c) Printing piece weight only 
8.0 lb 
 
 
d) Printing weight for one-piece shipments 
Piece / Shpt  Weight:  
2.7 kg 
5.11.3. Relative and Total Number of Pieces in Shipment (conditional) 
DHL needs the exact number of pieces to be transported and billed. This entry is predominantly mandatory, as 
it reduces the risk of delays in customs processing. 
 
The overall criticality of the availability of the piece count varies between “very high” for non-doc and “moderate” 
for “doc” shipments. The piece count should be suppressed if its correctness cannot be guaranteed.  
 
 
The following rules apply: 
1. 
Any single-piece shipment has to carry the string "1/1", where a piece counter is separated with 
a slash « / » from the  total number of pieces. 
2. 
As a minimum, the label provided with the last piece must contain both the total number of 
pieces belonging to the shipment and its final single count (e.g. 12/12) 
3. 
DHL’s approval is explicitly required for a permanent suppression, on account level, of the 
relative and/or total number of pieces. 
a. Any missing number is then to be replaced by a “.” (dot) 
b. Example: “3/.” Indicates the third piece of a shipment where the total number of 
pieces is not known at the time of printing the label 
c. As a summary: 
i. 
“X/.” is the syntax for all labels as long as the total planned number of 
pieces is not known  
ii. 
“X/Y” is the syntax for all labels as soon as the total planned number of 
pieces is known 
iii. 
“Y/Y” is the syntax for the last piece label of a shipment 
 
 
5.11.4. Piece Weight Symbols 
 
Customers, Regulators or Standard Bodies sometimes require additional information to be added to Transport 
Labels. This is, for example, the case with Germany, where a new law was passed (1st July 2024) requiring that 
specific icons or symbols are applied to warn users about piece weight being above specific thresholds. It is not 
to exclude that similar rules may also apply, in the future, to other countries or handling processes.  
 
 
7 This legacy term refers to the sum of all pieces weight. The Waybill Document (see section 6.10) must 
display, at a minimum, the shipment weight. 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
29