Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The DHL ISO Routing Code contains destination country, destination Postcode, transport products and 
associated product features. When a routing field is optional, the content is not required. 
 
 
In the context of the routing barcode, optional does not always imply that the routing field may remain 
empty. Some routing fields must always be populated at least with zeroes. If data is available, though, 
such a field should always be filled. 
The Postcode, the region specific fields and the + separator after the product/feature block are the only optional 
fields which must be omitted if the data is not available.  
 
5.15.1. Routing Barcode Structure 
The following international ISO standards are supported when coding routing information in barcodes.  
• 
The ASC MH 10 routing barcode starts with the ASC MH 10 Data Identifier "2L" and is coded in barcode 
symbology Code 128.  
• 
The GS1 routing barcode starts with the GS1 Application Identifier "403" and is coded in barcode 
symbology GS1-128.  
Both standards are complementary and can co-exist without restriction (they do not differ in content but only in 
their technical structure). However, DHL Express-internal applications will only produce ASC MH 10 
routing barcodes starting with 2L. 
 
A distinction has to be made between the information which will be captured and the information, which will 
actually be printed out on the barcode. This distinction is mainly relevant for applications which need an 
indication on the output side. 
 
Example: At data content level, a calendar date for delivery is not chosen for the selected product, so the 
delivery date information will not be captured. The delivery date is optional, as it does not always have to be 
captured. However, at barcode level, the delivery date digits are mandatory as the delivery date field may not 
remain empty/blank and the field must be populated with zeroes if no valid information is available. 
All routing information appears both in human and bar-coded format except for the parenthesis 
around the Data Identifier which only appear in human readable format – not in the barcode. 
 
The printout level is either mandatory or optional, it means the whole barcode is either printed or not printed 
(with the possible exception of a country-specific extension).  
 
A product/feature block always consists of 8 digits, regardless of which products and features have 
been chosen. 
 
 
The table below details out ASC MH and GS1 barcode routing structures 
SECTION 
ASC MH 10 
GS1 
String 
LEFT 
PARENTHESIS 
( 
Mandatory 
(only in plain text – not in 
barcode!) 
“2L” 
“403” 
Mandatory 
DATA / 
APPLICATION 
IDENTIFIER 
RIGHT 
PARENTHESIS 
) 
Mandatory 
(only in plain text – not in 
barcode!) 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
39