Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Outbound Sort Code -> element 10 
• 
Destination Facility Code  -> element 11 
• 
Inbound Sort Code -> element 12 
 
5.9.1. 
 Outbound Sort Code (Conditional) 
 
Each DHL Service Area can define an Outbound Sort Code per Destination Facility Code. Sort Codes consist 
of up to four alphanumeric chars (numerals or capital letters). 
 
DHL Outbound Sort Codes are mandatory when defined (which is not the case for all outbound facilities) and 
must be printed on the label to support manual sorts. The corresponding information is available in DHL’s Global 
Reference Database (GREF) which must be referred to for the latest valid values.  
 
In cases where no Outbound Sort Code is defined by DHL Express in the country of origin, this field is to be 
populated with a “.” This is equivalent to the statement that "." is only used if an effective attempt to look a sort 
code up returned no value. 
 
Whenever no attempt was made to determine the Outbound Sort Code, then this should be left blank. "." This 
will also indicate to DHL that the label needs to be re-printed. 
 
5.9.2. 
  Destination Facility Code 
 
This segment contains the complete DHL Facility Code, of the DHL Facility which will manage the Delivery and 
consists of: 
• Country Code (two-digit: capital letters according to ISO 3166) 
• hyphen 
• DHL Service Area Code (three-digit; capital letters or numerals) 
• hyphen 
• DHL Facility Code (three-digit; capital letters or numerals) 
 
The Destination Facility Code depends on destination country, postal location type (e.g. post code) and product. 
This data is kept constantly updated in DHL’s Global Reference databases. 
 
 
In cases where a DHL Facility Code has not been specified or made available for a certain 
destination or an Address cannot be matched with Geo Location Coordinates in GREF, only Country 
Code and Service Area Code are to be printed (separated by a hyphen). Example: SG-SIN for 
Service Area Singapore 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
23