Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The word “From” is to be printed in the upper left corner of this section. It may be written in a local language, 
however for international shipments the English word “From” must appear as well. In this case only English, or 
both languages (English and local language) may be used, separated by a “/” symbol. 
 
The data Address elements and their definition are based upon the DHL Corporate Data Model, which is an 
integrated view of the data produced and consumed across DHL’s organization. It unites, formalizes and 
represents things important to DHL, as well as the rules governing them. 
 
The maximum number of lines is restricted by DHL’s internal data flow and the maximum height of the block. 
Each line contains a pre-defined maximum number of characters, with the highest value being 47 characters. 
 
Additional information (e.g. floor number, county) is possible but the overall number of lines must not exceed 7, 
for consistency with DHL’s data structure. 
 
For international shipments, the Country Name shall be written in its own line.  
 
For domestic pieces the Country Name may be printed in local language. For all cross-border pieces the 
Country Name has to be printed in English (may be followed by local translation). The Country Name is 
optional for domestic shipments BUT mandatory for cross-border shipments if ISO 3166 code is missing) 
 
The Country Code follows the ISO 3166 two-character country code standard and must be used whenever 
available as a quick reference for a number of DHL services. 
 
5.4.1.1. 
Highly-Compact Label 
 
For these cases and upon formal DHL EXPRESS approval, the number of Sender Address lines can be limited 
to 5 (from the allowed 7 lines) with the functional advantage that the font size can be kept high with the inherent 
advantages in terms of readability. This is achievable with the following reference structure: 
 
1. Address line 1: Receiver Company / Name 
2. Address line 2: Building Name or equivalent 
3. Address line 3: Street Name, Street Number 
4. Address line 4: City Name, Postcode or equivalent for other Postal Location Formats (e.g. Suburb, County, State) 
5. Country Code / Country Name 
 
5.5. Customer Logo 
The relative small font of the sender address offers space to the right of the segment. This is reserved for an 
optional Customer Logo or alternatively for a DHL Initiative Logo (e.g. GoGreen) if customer agrees or asks for 
it. 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
20