Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.3.2. 
 Data Matrix 
9.3.2.1. 
Definition  
Data Matrix is a two-dimensional matrix symbology made up of square modules arranged in a square or rectangle 
shaped pattern. This symbology is capable of packing large amounts of data and has the capability of recovering 
the original data encoded even when it is partially damaged through an error correction technique. Data Matrix 
codes are characterized by the matrix size which is the overall rows and columns count (for example 32x32 in 
Error! Reference source not found.). Higher matrix sizes need more space and take a higher amount of data. 
9.3.2.2. 
Scope  
 
The Data Matrix symbology will be used to encode operational data to be used in the PUD and In-Facility 
domains. 
9.3.2.3. 
Key parameters 
 
Within DHL the following code parameters shall be used: 
• 
Symbology: Data Matrix ECC 200 
• 
Module size: 0.38 mm 
The nominal range of 0.40 > x > 0.38 may, in the future, be extended to the smaller value 0.24 mm due to 
scanner performance evolution.  
The module size for 2D symbols for Sorting purposes shall not fall below 0.76mm. 
• 
Symbol matrix: any symbol matrix is supported. 
As the application typically requires at least 200 characters capacity, only square symbols might be used. 
The smallest possible symbol matrix should be used to get best readability. 
• 
Macro: Macro 06 should be used as data is appropriate for that. 
• 
Quiet Zone: recommended min 4mm, on all symbol sides 
• 
Code Quality Grade: B 
• 
Printing technology: any which reaches the quality requirements. Examples: Thermal Transfer, Laser, 
InkJet etc. 
• 
Encoding: Currently, 7 bit data is used only, so no ECI specification required. 
• 
Human readable interpretation:  The data contents are not shown verbatim on the label. Instead, excerpts 
like the public information might be displayed similar to the 1D codes. 
• 
Symbol physical location: the 2D symbol will be placed, on the label, in such a way as to maximize the 
quiet zone and protect specially the finder patterns from damage. In addition, It shall meet the ISO 
15394:2017 requirements, which specifies the minimum requirements for the design of labels containing  
two-dimensional symbols on transport units to convey data between trading partners. 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
75