Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Specifications of Linear Barcodes  
9.1.  
General 
The customer can apply more barcodes to the piece, linear as well as 2-dimensional, for his own purposes. 
However, care must be taken that these other barcodes do not interfere with DHL internal processes. For this 
reason, the following restrictions apply to other barcodes on the piece: 
9.2. Linear Barcode Symbology 
DHL uses Code 128 as standard barcode symbology for Piece Identifier and Routing Barcode. For bar-coded 
information defined under GS1-standards (such as the GS1 SSCC) the GS1-128 barcode symbology has to be 
used. 
 
For best-possible read-rates of automated scanning, the barcodes on a label should not have the same distance 
to the left or right edge. This is usually achieved by printing the barcodes centered on the label. Where that is 
not possible, it is recommended to manually indent the Piece Identifier barcode by at least 2 millimeters. 
 
In accordance with License Plate standards, DHL will also accept Code 39 for ASC MH10 coded information. 
This barcode symbology however is not the preferred barcode symbology. 
 
Code 39 must not be used for Piece Identifier barcodes on any labels produced by DHL or printed on 
systems created by DHL. 
 
 
When Code 39 is used by a customer, special care has to be taken that the barcodes do not exceed the 
maximum length requirements, due to the low information density of this barcode. 
 
9.2.1. 
  Code 128 Barcodes 
 
All BARCODE PARAMETERS must be as defined in ISO/IEC 16388 “Automatic identification and data capture 
techniques -- Code 128 Barcode symbology specification”. 
 
Code 128 Barcodes on piece labels and archive labels must meet the following specifications. 
 
Symbol height 
The minimum height for the barcodes is 25 mm, unless formally approved 
(Global SOP) differently.  
The Routing barcode, may exhibit an exceptional min height of 11 mm, 
recommended for all Label templates where space is a challenge. 
Both options are currently available and can be used. 
x-dimension 
The minimum narrow element dimension (x-dimension) shall not be less than 
0.33 mm and shall also not exceed 0.51 mm for the ISO/IEC 15417 Standard. 
The GS1 Standard defines size ranges for the GS1 barcode symbologies, in 
the EAN General Specifications. For transport packaging, values within the 
interval module width 0.495 mm to 0.660 mm are allowed. 
Within the above indicated ranges, the biggest x-dimension should be used that 
is supported by the printing device used, while complying with barcode length 
and quiet zone specifications. 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
72