Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. Specifications of Label Types, Fonts and Sizes 
This paragraph describes all defined types of DHL Automated Labels, each of them with mandatory and optional 
sections including size and position on the label. 
 
The values for font sizes specify minimum font sizes. However, the maximum height per block has to be 
considered. DHL’s document rendering tool (GLS) introduced a dynamic management feature for the font size, 
to ensure information does not get unnecessarily truncated in case of long contents, which may lead to slightly 
distinct font sizes within the different lines of a common segment. This is to be seen as functionally correct even 
if at the expense of graphical representation consistency. 
 
Furthermore, the font size for the Consignee address must be bigger than the font size for the Shipper 
address. For each address, the Postcode and City/Town font size must not be smaller than the size of the 
biggest font used in the respective address lines. 
 
For all font sizes, the values given for “Font height in mm” and “Size in dots at 200 dpi” are rounded values, 
provided solely for ease of programming. The size always includes the space between the lines. 
 
Although ARIAL font type is recommended, other fonts can be accepted if they are without serifs and if they 
provide equal legibility. 
 
The default and preferred orientation for the DHL label is the portrait orientation. A landscape format is only 
possible as an exemption, to be approved by DHL’s Central Label Certification Office. DHL-owned applications 
are not allowed to print landscape format labels. 
 
 
Font sizes are subject to two conflicting requirements: max font size for readability and min font 
size for compactness. For this reason, in scenarios where a high compactness degree is required 
(e.g. customer with much data in the customer-owned segment) the font size for the Shipper 
Address lines can be decreased to a min font size of 1.5 [mm]. Accordingly, the font size for the 
Receiver Address lines may be decreased to a min font size of 2.5[mm]. In both special cases, a 
formal approval from the Global Label Certification Center is required (mandatory). 
 
In the segment descriptions, thin red lines are used to separate segments. These lines must not 
be printed. A thick red line shows where a black  line needs to be printed as a segment 
separator on the label. 
 
 
8.1. DHL ESS Label v2.8 
8.1.1. 
  Size and Orientation 
The label width must be within 95 and 110 mm. This requirement is met by both A6 labels (portrait) and 
4” wide labels. 
The preferred length of a DHL Transport Label is between 148 mm (A6 length) and 152.4 mm (6”), but 
it can be longer if necessary to support requirements for additional information. A general maximum 
length is not defined. However, each customer must be given the possibility to print labels that are not 
longer than 250 mm. Depending on the piece dimensions, no label may be too long to fit on one side of 
the package. 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
60