Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Transport Label – Segment Specifications 
Because several Data Elements and Fields are common to both the DHL Transport Label and the DHL 
eWaybill, which build the core set of the Global Label Standards, the listing and definition of the respective 
components will be sub-divided into Label- and Order-related.  
As a note, a label consists of sections, which may further contain one or more segments. 
The numbered sections of the DHL Transport Label as shown below refer to the following paragraphs where the 
sections are described in more detail. The dimensions of the sections are described in the technical specification. 
This chapter defines the contents of the sections and segments and their character (i.e. if they are mandatory, 
conditional or optional).  
• 
Mandatory: means it must always appear independent of the scenario. If mandatory information is 
not available, the whole label or a particular label section/segment should not be printed. (E.g.: no 
DHL Transport Label must be printed without the Piece Identifier barcode) 
• 
Conditional: means it may be mandatory in some cases and optional in other cases. (e.g. 
depending on product or country of origin) 
• 
Optional: means that the label field content is not mandatory, it does not have to be displayed on 
the label. (E.g.: the customer logo)  
Note: For the routing information, the optional content information does not always indicate that the dedicated 
section or segment field remains empty/blank when printing the label. For instance, if the optional delivery date 
or time features are not chosen, optional implies that zeroes are displayed in the routing barcode. 
5.1. Layout overview 2– DHL Transport Label (all segments)  
 
 
 
 
2 This page offers a structured overview of the Global SOP Standard Transport Label. Sub-sequent sections 
explain in detail the specifications of each individually numbered segment. 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
12