Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Piece Identifier: 
• 
must not contain more than 35 chars (excluding the Data Identifier “J”)  
• 
may only contain numeric and upper case alphabetic chars drawn from ISO/IEC  646 – they 
must not include any lower case char or punctuation mark 
• 
must start with a string of chars representing an issuing agency assigned by ISO  
 
DHL EXPRESS issued Piece Identifiers (LPs) usually begin with either a “JD00…“ or a “JD01…” format prefix. 
 
In the specific case of the JD01 LP-types, its length i.e. the number of characters following the Data Identifier 
“(J)” is exactly 20 – see example, below. 
 
 
5.17.2. Barcode and Plain Text 
 
A Piece Identifier must be printed as a barcode. Its content must be repeated in plain text below the barcode.  
 
Although, according to the official standard, both Code 128 and Code 39 are allowed to encode Piece 
Identifier numbers, any barcode produced by a CAS system or any DHL internal software has to use 
Code 128. 
 
 
5.17.3. Data/Application Identifier 
 
The Data Identifier (for ASC MH 10 data fields) or Application Identifier (for GS1 data fields) is an ISO-specified 
string of chars that identifies the content of the data that follows. 
 
All DHL issued Piece Identifiers will be of type ASC MH10, using Data Identifier “J”. 
 
For readability reasons of ASC MH10 Piece Identifiers, DHL EXPRESS requires that the human-readable code 
be grouped in such a way that blocks of four digits follow the (Sub-) Issuing Agency Code. Those are built 
upwards (from left to right) so that the last four digits also form a group. 
 
This way of printing Piece Identifier in groups of four digits is mandatory for all DHL-owned 
customer automation software. 
 
 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
43