Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Barcode content = 3100032902 
Symbol height 
The minimum height for the barcode is 25 mm. However, a barcode height of at 
least 28 millimeters is recommended 
x-dimension 
The minimum narrow element dimension (x-dimension) shall not be less than 
0.33 mm. The x-dimension shall not exceed 0.51 mm.  
Within this range, the biggest x-dimension has to be used that is supported by 
the printing device used, while complying with barcode length and quiet zone 
specifications. 
Quiet zone 
Linear barcode symbols must be printed with leading and trailing quiet zones. 
For Code 128, DHL demands not less than 5 mm. Quiet zones are not part 
of the barcode itself, i.e. a barcode of 91 mm needs at least 101 mm space on 
the label. 
Quality 
The linear barcode quality must, as a minimum, conform to “Grade B”, tested 
according to ANSI and CEN (EN 1635), Test Specifications for Barcode 
Symbols. 
 
 
9.3. Bi-Dimensional Barcode Symbologies 
9.3.1. 
What is a 2D Barcode 
A 1D (linear) code is the typical "picket fence" style barcode that people are most familiar with. There are several 
versions of 1D codes with distinct capabilities: some encode only numbers while others can encode any typical 
character. Core is that information in the code is organized horizontally from left to right.  
2D barcodes are graphical representations (i.e. ordered grid of dark and light dots) that structure, organize and 
store information both horizontally (as 1-dimensional bar codes) and vertically. They are bordered by a finder 
pattern. They are also more complex but hold much more information and take up less space than a 1D code. 
2D codes require a 2D-enabled (e.g. imager) scanner to be read properly. 
The most typical 2D Code Symbologies are: 
• 
Data Matrix 
• 
Aztec Code 
• 
QR Code 
• 
Maxicode 
• 
PDF 417 
Currently, the Data Matrix symbology is the most commonly used due to minimal size requirements, robustness 
by integrated automatic error correction and usability on most 2D devices. PDF417 needs at least 3 times the 
space than Data Matrix by a reduced reading capability. 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
74