Reference Guide 
Global SOP Network Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Any customer automation application has to offer a minimum of 5 lines for the Consignee address. 
Further information such as floor number, county etc is possible but the overall number of lines must not exceed 
7, for consistency with DHL’s data structure. 
 
Delivery Country and the applicable Postal Location Format Elements (e.g. City and Postal Code) have to be 
printed in bigger font. In case of lack of space, the two lines can be joined to one line.  
 
7 
Delivery Country and the applicable Postal Location Format Elements (e.g. City and Postal Code) 
have to be printed in bigger font. In case of lack of space, the two lines can be joined to one line. 
8 
This area of the label is reserved for an optional Customer Logo or alternatively for a DHL Initiative Logo 
(e.g. GoGreen) if customer agrees or asks for it. 
9 
Consignee’s Shipper contact details are still critical operational information and will be captured and 
stored, in accordance with GDPR, as part of the shipment preparation. 
As part of DHL’s ongoing process and systems improvements, this information is, however, no longer 
required to be printed on the Transport Label. It is made available electronically to our relevant employess 
and operators to perform their tasks and deliver the service expected of our customers. 
  Note: in exceptional circumstances (e.g. for compliance with international regulations like the ICAO or IATA 
for goods with UN Code UN3373) and only upon formal approval, specific contact details may have to be 
printed on the Transport Label. 
5.8.1. 
Highly-Compact Version 
 
In analogy to the Consignor’s Address segment, there may be the need to maximize the compactness of the 
info on the remaining Label segments in order to free up space elsewhere.  
 
For these cases and upon formal approval, the number of Consignor Address lines can be reduced to 5 with the 
functional advantage that the font size can be kept high with the inherent advantages in terms of readability. 
This is achievable with the following reference structure: 
 
1. Address line 1: Receiver Company / Name 
2. Address line 2: Building Name or equivalent 
3. Address line 3: Street Name, Street Number 
4. Address line 4: City Name, Postcode or equivalent for other Postal Location Formats (e.g. Suburb, County, State) 
5. Country Code / Country Name 
 
5.9.  
Manual Sorting Section 
DHL’s Manual Sort Information consists of the following three segments, from left to right: 
 
 
 
Confidential – Uncontrolled copy when printed or translated 
 
<Global Standard Transport Labels and Waybills> 
Document ID : 1-241108-01 
Network Operations 
      
Approved 
Effective date :1/12/2024 
 
 
DHL Express – Excellence. Simply delivered. 
 
22