UPS™ Worldwide Economy  Specifications
Label Format Requirements
Introduction
UPS Routing Code
An additional letter must be appended to the end of the UPS 
Routing Code depending on the UPS™ Worldwide Economy 
service option selected.  If UPS™ Economy DDP service is 
selected, a space and the letter "P" are appended to the UPS 
Routing Code. 
UPS™ Worldwide Economy service is a single-piece                      
non-guaranteed shipment which provides customers with an 
international cross-border economy product. Customers are 
offered 2 options,  UPS™ Economy DDP and  UPS™ Economy 
DDU, for UPS™ Worldwide Economy shipments. Customers 
will be provided with a similar experience to existing products 
within the UPS™ Worldwide portfolio.  
For Example: 
	
IND 010 9-00 P
If UPS™ Economy DDU service is selected, a space and the letter 
"U" are appended to the UPS Routing Code. 
Customers have the option to consolidate UPS™ Worldwide 
Economy packages into a single Master Shipment. Customers 
also have the option to transport UPS™ Worldwide Economy 
packages directly to an export or vendor site without creating a 
Master Shipment.
For Example: 
	
DEU 091 0-00 U
UPS™ Worldwide Economy and Master Shipment labels must 
follow the specifications outlined in the UPS Guide to Labeling. 
In addition, for UPS™ Worldwide Economy, an additional 
letter must be appended to the end of the UPS Routing code 
depending on the option selected. 
Billing Options
For UPS™ Economy DDP (Delivered Duties Paid) shipments, 
Duties and Taxes are paid up-front on behalf of the consignee.  
Valid billing options include Prepaid (P/P), Free Domicile (F/D), 
and Freight Collect (F/C) via the Shipper or a Third Party Payor.
NOTE: Only select domestic and EU transborder services are 
valid options for a Master Shipment. (See Pg. 34)
Label Format Requirements
For UPS™ Economy DDU (Delivered Duties Unpaid) shipments, 
Duties and Taxes are paid at time of delivery. Valid billing options 
include Prepaid (P/P) and Freight Collect (F/C) via the Shipper or 
a Third Party Payor.
When using the UPS™ Worldwide Economy service, the Service 
Indicators and MaxiCode™ Class of Service codes listed in this 
document must be used.  
PDF417 Barcode
When UPS™ Worldwide Economy is used, the PDF417 barcode 
must print on the shipping label.  For details on the PDF417 
barcode, please refer to the PDF417 barcode symbology 
document.
Package Weight
The package weight must be printed on all UPS™ Worldwide 
Economy labels.  UPS™ Economy DDP shipments from the U.S. 
or Canada must display weight in pounds. UPS™ Economy 
DDU shipments from the U.S. or Canada must display weight in 
ounces to the tenth. 
	
• 

For Example:  16.9 OZ
Note: UPS Worldwide Economy labels must display EDI on the 
	
• 

MaxiCode's weight field must contain "1"
labels.
UPS™ Economy DDU and DDP shipments from outside the U.S. 
or Canada must display weight in kilograms to the tenth. A scale 
may have two or more decimals and will need to be rounded up 
to the nearest tenth.  Any value other than zero in the hundredth 
position requires the weight to be rounded up. 
	
• 

Example #1: 3.02 ounces would be 3.1 OZ
	
• 

Example #2: 1.091 kilograms would be 1.1 KGS
Service Indicators, Icons and MaxiCode™  Class of Service for International Movements 	
Service Title	
Service Indicator	
Service Icon	 Class of Service
UPS™ ECONOMY DDP	
                                              FC                    Black Square	
459
UPS™ ECONOMY DDU	
                                              FD                    Black Square	
460	
UPS Guide to Labeling
© 2024 United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
36
© 2014 United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark  
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
© 2024 United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
Supplement