UPS World Ease™ Specifications
 Label Format Requirements
for final distribution.
UPS World Ease™ General Rules
UPS World Ease™ Label
UPS World Ease™ service allows shippers to 
combine multiple shipments for multiple receivers 
into one large shipment. It moves and clears 
customs as one transaction then is split and 
delivered to multiple receivers.  UPS World Ease™ 
packages can also be addressed to UPS Access 
Point™  destinations.
The UPS World Ease™ label is divided into two 
distinct sections contained on a single 4" x 11" label. 
The first section is the upper part of the label (4" x 
6"), which contains the final destination information 
for the shipment. The second section of the label (4" 
x 5") contains the UPS import site information and 
is referred to as the over-label. The over-label must 
be perforated allowing the customer to remove the 
4" x 5" portion and position the label horizontally 
over the Ship To Address section exposing only the 
UPS Service Title, Tracking Number, Service Icon 
and all the information beneath it. See example 
label on page 9. The material must be constructed 
in a manner which allows UPS to remove the over-
label at the import site without damaging the 
MaxiCode™, Postal Barcode, or shipping information 
on the final destination label.
UPS World Ease™ Paper Documentation 
Final Destination Block — 
4" x 6" Portion of the label
All Shipments must have the same ship date, 
importer of record and billing option. UPS 
Express Plus™, UPS Express™ and UPS Saver™ 
service levels may be combined within a Master 
Shipment as allowed by the origin/destination 
pair and shipper's Port of Entry (POE) table. All 
Child Shipments within a Master Shipment for 
UPS Expedited™ and UPS® Standard service 
levels must contain the same service level. All 
Child Shipments must clear in the same port as 
the Summary Shipment (document box). The 
document box is a UPS-supplied green-colored 
box that is processed as the lead shipment of the 
consolidated movement. The document box will 
always be a single-piece shipment. The shipping 
system will automatically create the document box 
shipment after completion of the last shipment 
of a Consolidated UPS World Ease™ movement 
containing paper documents. The document box 
will contain all import documentation required to 
clear customs. 
This section contains the final destination 
information for the shipment. All data formatting 
and placement of the information follows the 
current UPS Guide to Labeling. In addition, an 
indicator must print directly to the right (preceded 
by a dash) of the documentation indicator in the top 
right corner of the Additional Routing Instructions 
Block. All labels including the document box will 
display the same indicator.  
For shipments containing paper documents; which 
do not qualify for Paper Invoice, the formatting rules 
are:
• Indicator Font Size = 16 pt. bold
• Document Indicator Text = INV-CC
Import Site Block — 
4" x 5" Portion of the Label (Over-Label)
Customers using the contractual UPS Paperless™ 
Invoice service have an option to eliminate 
the document box, CID, and master invoice if 
no paper documents are necessary for import 
clearance.  When a document box is NOT 
required the shipping system will automatically 
create a Summary Label. The Summary Label 
will be applied adjacent to the shipping label 
of the last package of the shipment. A specific 
documentation indicator will be used to designate 
the inclusion or omission of a document box in a 
consolidated UPS World Ease™  shipment using 
Paperless Invoice.   
This section contains the UPS import site 
information for the consolidated shipment 
containing paper documents and/or non-paper 
items; which do not qualify for Paperless Invoice 
Service.
• The lead package must be a UPS World Ease™  
document box (Doc Box)
• All labels (Doc Box and Child Shipment Labels 
For customers shipping to the European Union 
(EU), Child Shipments destined to all 27 EU 
countries can be combined into one Master 
Shipment for  a consolidated customs clearance. 
Individual shipments must originate from a single 
pick-up point in a non-European Union country 
and must clear in a single port of entry in the EU 
must have an over-label with the same document 
indicator in the bottom right corner
© 2024 United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark are 
trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
7
Supplement