Appendix A
MaxiCode™ data string
Data Content
The format shown below describes how to incorporate address elements into a MaxiCode™ data string.
	 n	 indicates a Numeric field
	an	 indicates an Alpha/Numeric field
	 a	 indicates an Alphabetic field
	…	 indicates variable-length field
Field Name	
Description	
Type
SHIP TO Postal Code	
(an 1…9)	
Required1
SHIP TO ISO Country Code 	
(n 3) 	
Required2
Class Of Service 	
(n 3)	
Required
Tracking Number	
(an 10)	
Required
UPS SCAC 	
UPSN	
Required
    (Standard Carrier Alpha Code) 
UPS Account Number	
(an 6)	
Required
Julian Day of Pickup	
(n 3)	
Required
Shipment ID Number 	
(an 1…30)	
Optional
Package In Shipment N/X 	
(n 1…3/n 1…3)	
Required3
    (package N of X total packages)
Package Weight	
(n 1…3)	
Required4
Address Validation (Y or N)	
(a 1)	
Required5
SHIP TO Address	
(an 1...35) or (an 1...10<Fs>an1...8)	
Required6
SHIP TO City	
(an 1…20) 	
Required
SHIP TO State/Province	
(a 2)	
Required7
1Non-US postal codes vary in lenght. Encode the actual postal code value without spaces or special characters, such as dash (-), 
between characters.  Ensure that the postal code in the MaxiCode data string is the same as the one in the postal barcode.  If the 
country does not have a postal code, leave the field empty.  Postal codes must be 6 alphanumeric characters for non-US addresses 
(Mode 3)and 5 or 9 numeric characters for US addresses (Mode 2).  Include trailing spaces in the Ship To postal code when the value 
does not meet the minimum lenght requirements.  If greater than the character limit, truncate from the right.
2
The International Standards Organization Country codes are located in Appendix E.
13
The / character must be encoded to separate the N/X, package in shipment.
14
Round up to the next whole pound or kilogram. The minimum weight must be one pound or one kilogram unless the package  
type is either Letter or Envelope. Leave this field blank for Letters and Envelopes unless the weight is equal to or above the 
published threshold. Leave this field blank if the weight exceeds the maximum number of characters allowed in the field (for UPS 
Worldwide Express Freight™ Service)
   5This field is set to Y when the delivery address is compared to a USPS CASS-certified database.
  6aUse the (an 1...35) format to provide the full street address address line 1 (e.g. 123 MAIN ST). The address may be truncated if the    
full address reaches the character limit.  For non-compressed Maxicode please use the additional information of (Appendix A page 
71).
  6bUse the (an 1...10<Fs>an1...8) format to provide a secondary address such as a suite or apartment number.  
       When the (an 1...10<Fs>an1...8) format to provide a secondary address such as a suite or apartment number.  This format is 
allowed only for CASScertified address within an uncompressed Maxicode. The Address Validation field must be set to 'Y'.  Provide 
the primary address number, the nonprintable character Fs, and the secondary address number.
       number, the non-printable character Fs, and the secondary address number.
17
Some non-U.S. Destinations will not have a state or province.
77
© 2024  United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
For Customers Located in Europe