Definitions
Code 128 — 
A variable length, continuous, self-checking, alphanumeric barcode. Its data character set contains 105 characters 
in each of three unique subsets. Each character consists of three bars and three spaces consuming 11 modules 
of width. Bars and spaces may be 1, 2, 3 or 4 modules wide. The name Code 128 is derived from the capability 
of encoding the full ASCII 128 character set. One of the three subsets (Code C) employs one Code 128 character 
for each character pair of digits from 00 to 99 permitting shorter barcode symbols in some situations where 
adjacent numeric characters appear. (See AIM USS 128 for symbology specifications.)
Coding Accuracy Support System (CASS) — 
A service offered by the United States Post Office to shippers and software vendors that improves the accuracy 
of matching addresses to ZIP+4™ codes. CASS provides a common platform to measure the quality of address-
matching software.
Compressed MaxiCode™ Data String — 
The process of reducing the number of bits necessary to represent characters that constitute a consignee 
address.
Data Identifier — 
A character string which defines the specific intended use of the data that immediately follows. The identifier 
is an alphabetic character preceded by up to three numeric characters as defined by ANSI MH10.8.2.
Decodability — 
A measure of printing accuracy as perceived by a barcode reader using a symbology reference decode algorithm.
Digit — 
Any of the numeric characters zero through nine, inclusive.
Domestic Movements — 
Domestic shipments are defined as package shipments that move within a single postal authority (most typically 
within a country). For example a Germany-to-Germany shipment would be considered a domestic shipment.
Edge-to-Edge — 
A measure from the leading edge of a bar or space to the next similar edge.
Element — 
A single bar or space in a barcode.
Font — 
A specific size and style of a printer’s type.
Highlighting Bars — 
One-tenth inch solid black lines located immediately above and below the UPS Barcode block.
Human-Readable Interpretation — 
The text representing the data content of a barcode.
Human-Readable Text — 
Refers to all text not representing encoded barcode data.
Intercharacter Gap — 
The space between the last bar of one character and the first bar of the next which separates the two 
adjacent characters.
102
© 2024  United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
For Customers Located in Europe