Definitions
Nominal — 
The exact (or ideal) intended value for a specified parameter. Tolerances are specified as positive and negative 
deviations from this value.
Numeric — 
A character set that includes only numbers.
OCR Quality Fonts — 
Print settings readable by humans as well as machines. OCR (Optical Character Recognition) characters 
can be decoded by examining the vertical and horizontal axes.
Pitch — 
A measure from the leading edge of a bar or space of a character to the end of the character.
Print Contrast Signal (PCS) — 
A comparison between the reflectance of the bars and that of the spaces.
Print Quality — 
The measure of compliance of a barcode symbol with the requirements of accuracy, defects, modulation, 
symbol contrast and print technology.
Quiet Zone — 
An area containing no markings immediately preceding and following a barcode which may interfere with 
the scanning process (the areas above and below the barcode may also be designated as quiet zones).
Reference Number — 
Positions 11-17 of the Tracking Number generated by the customer. The reference number is required 
to be unique for each package (similar to a progressive number used in the transportation industry).
Separating Lines — 
The narrow lines used to segregate barcode and information blocks.
Service Icons — 
Black-and-white representations of the corresponding UPS services. 
Service Indicator — 
Positions 9-10 of the Tracking Number, indicating a package’s particular service features.
Space — 
The lighter element of a barcode usually formed by the background between the bars.
Start/Stop Characters — 
Distinct characters or patterns used at the beginning and end of each barcode symbol which provide 
the scanner with the start and stop reading instructions as well as the scanning direction indicator.
Subset A — 
One of the three unique subsets within Code 128 that enables the coding of Alphanumeric data. 
This subset is used at the beginning of the Tracking Number.
Subset C — 
One of the three unique subsets within Code 128 that enables the coding of two numbers within one Code 
128 character. This permits shorter barcode symbols in some situations where several adjacent numeric characters 
appear.
104
© 2024  United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
© 2024  United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
For Customers Located in Europe
For Customers Located in Europe