UPS Manifest Summary
UPS Manifest Summary (cont.)
BARCODE DATA CONTENT
A. 
Application Identifier — A two-digit numeric field 
that specifically identifies the barcode as a PSB. The 
Application Identifier used will vary based 
on the status of the Package Level Detail (PLD) 
upload. A 91 will be used to represent successful 
upload of PLD. A 90 will be used to indicate the 
PLD is pending and has not been uploaded to UPS 
(current day’s PLD excluded).
B. 
Account Number — Six-character UPS Account 
Number.
C. 
PLD Unique Identifier — Nine digits consisting 
After all services are listed, the Collection Totals line 
must print. The Collection Totals line contains the 
text “Collection Totals” and the sum of the Shipments 
and Packages columns in 10 pt. bold. The text 
“Collection Totals” must be indented and the sums 
will appear immediately below the columns they 
represent.                                                                                       
                                                                                                            
FOR UPS USE ONLY SECTION
The For UPS Use Only section contains information 
about Manifest, Additional Handling and 
Dangerous Goods. Manifest shipments/packages 
are those with a service level of UPS Domestic, 
except for UPS Domestic Express Plus services. 
Worldwide and Domestic Express Plus services are 
considered to be Waybill. This section is framed and 
must contain the following information.
of the seven-digit pickup book number and the 
two-digit page number. This data element is fixed 
length. If the pickup book number has a leading 
zero, the zero must be included to make the 
seven-digit book number. There is no check digit 
displayed with this identifier.
• Line 1 = 
The text “For UPS Use Only” along with the 
total Manifest shipments and packages in 
12 pt, bold. 
D. 
Package Count — The total number of Manifest 
packages as defined in the For UPS Only Section 
communicated to UPS via PLD.
Lines 2-5 must be indented from Line 1.
• Line 2 = 
The text “Additional Handling Waybill” 
along with the total Additional Handling 
Waybill shipments and packages in 10 pt. 
• Line 3 = 
The text “Additional Handling Manifest” 
along with the total Additional Handling 
Manifest shipments and packages in 10 pt.
E. 
Check Digit — The check digit represents the result 
of the barcode check digit algorithm applied to 
data elements B-D. For instructions on calculating 
the MOD 10 check digit, please see Appendix C. 
For the PSB, dropping the Application Identifier 
is considered to be Step 1. The Account Number, 
PLD Unique Identifier and Package Count are used 
per Appendix C for Steps 2-8.
• Line 4 = 
The text “Additional Handling Total” 
along with the total Additional Handling 
shipments and packages in 10 pt.
• Line 5 = 
The text “Dangerous Goods Total” 
along with the total Dangerous Goods 
shipments and packages in 10 pt.
PICKUP SUMMARY BARCODE (PSB) SECTION
BARCODE HUMAN READABLE TEXT
The human readable text must be centered below 
the barcode in uppercase spaced as shown below:
• 91 123 X56 1234 56789 12345 1
• Font Size = 12 pt.
BARCODE SPECIFICATIONS
• Symbology	
 = Code 128
• Barcode Height	
 = One inch
• X-Dimension	
 = 15-21 mil
• 
Quiet Zones
— Top and bottom  = 0.0625 inches
— Left and right = 0.25 inches
70
© 2024  United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
For Customers Located in Europe