Definitions
 
Symbology — 
A set of rules for encoding information in a barcode symbol. An arrangement of parallel, rectangular bars 
and spaces arranged in a predetermined pattern following unambiguous rules.
Thermal Direct Printing — 
A print method in which a heated print head contacts specially treated labels, thereby causing the label to darken.
Thermal Transfer Printing — 
A print method in which a heated print head melts and transfers ink from a ribbon to a label.
Tolerance — 
The allowable variation from an ideal dimension.
Tracking Number — 
The UPS customized unique package ID when used with tracking/tracing services.
UPS Account Number — 
Positions 3-8 of the Tracking Number, containing the unique number assigned by UPS to the shipper.
UPS Routing Code (URC) — 
A representation of the delivery building for a package. The URC helps to ensure the accurate routing and prompt 
delivery of a shipment.
USPS CASS Database — 
The USPS CASS database is used to perform address validation for addresses in the United States.
USS-128 — 
Uniform Symbology Specification produced by AIM. These specifications are intended as a guide to aid 
the manufacturer, the consumer and the general public regarding printing and scanning Code 128.
Warsaw Agreement — 
The rules relating to liability established by the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to 
International Carriage by Air signed at Warsaw, Poland, on October 12, 1929, and any amendments thereto 
shall apply to the international carriage of any shipment insofar as the same is governed thereby. There are no 
stopping places which are agreed upon at the time of tender of the shipment, and UPS reserves the right to route 
the shipment in any way UPS deems appropriate.
Wide-to-Narrow Ratio — 
The ratio between the widths of wide elements and narrow elements in two-width symbologies.
X Dimension — 
The nominal width dimension of the narrow bars and spaces in a barcode symbol.
ZIP Code™ — 
Five- or nine-digit number that identifies each postal delivery area within the United States.
ZIP+4™ Code — 
It is an enhanced version of the 5-digit ZIP Code­
. It consists of the 5-digit ZIP Code plus four additional digits 
that identify a specific range of delivery addresses.
ZIP Code and ZIP+4™ are registered trademarks of the United States Postal Service.
105
© 2024  United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
For Customers Located in Europe