Message Specification Guidelines                         
                          
 
Appendix F – Return Shipments 
A “Return” shipment (a shipment of items previously exported from a country, by any carrier, now being 
returned for repair or some other reason) may, depending on the shipment destination country, need to be 
assessed differently by destination Customs. Therefore particular information may need to be provided in 
the manifest data submitted for such a shipment and on any documents also submitted, such as a 
Commercial Invoice. 
 
The Commercial Invoice may be rendered as an image file by DHL Express from the manifest data, which 
can then be made available to the shipper (please contact DHL Express if this solution is required). 
 
The information particular to Return shipments is as follows: 
 
No. 
Information Required 
Location in Message 
1 
Original Export Date (of line item within shipment) 
Segment Group 54 (Invoice Line Item) 
RFF with ZZZ qualifier 
See Page 87 
e.g. RFF+ZZZ:original export date' 
Segment Group 54 (Invoice Line Item) 
RFF with ERN qualifier 
See Page 87 
e.g. RFF+ERN:original export tracking ID' 
2 
Original Export Tracking ID (of line item within 
shipment) – i.e. consignment note number of 
shipment on which item/s being returned were 
originally exported 
3 
Original Export Carrier Name (of line item within 
shipment) – i.e. carrier of shipment on which item/s 
being returned were originally exported 
Segment Group 54 (Invoice Line Item) 
RFF with CN qualifier 
See Page 87 
e.g. RFF+CN:2 original outbound carrier 
name' 
Segment Group 25 (Invoice level) 
FTX with AAU qualifier 
See Page 74 
e.g. FTX+AAU+++Duty free import remarks’ 
4 
Duty Free Import Remark  – i.e. free text remark to 
assist in Customs submission for Return shipment 
 
Remarks differ by re-import / destination 
country. Examples: 
• 
US: “Goods returning to the US and were not 
advanced in value or condition while outside 
the US” 
• 
UK: "British Returned Goods" 
• 
CA: "Canadian Goods Return" 
• 
AU: “Australian goods returned” 
• 
NZ: “New Zealand Returned Goods” 
5 
Reason for Export 
Segment Group 25 (Invoice level) 
FTX with CEX qualifier, populate with R 
(Return) 
See page 74 
e.g. FTX+CEX+++R' 
 
Other information mandatory for all dutiable shipments, such as line item descriptions, quantities and 
values, should also be provided 
 
 
 
 
 
Global EDI IFCSUM D01B v3.0             Confidential                             Page 112 of 115