Appendix A
MaxiCode™ Specifications
Printing Guidelines:
4) 
Each printer manufacturer may rearrange 
the MaxiCode™  data string.

Explanation: Three typical scenarios are listed 
below:
a) 
Manufacturer may ask you to send its specific 
printer control commands, followed by the 
data string in the exact order (headers, Postal 
Code, Country Code, Class of Service, Tracking 
Number, SCAC Code, etc.) and then more 
printer control commands. 
The first step in producing a MaxiCode™ symbology 
is ensuring your printer’s capabilities. Check with 
your printer manufacturer to verify that your printer 
model has the current MaxiCode™ symbology 
-capable firmware. The printer manufacturer should 
also provide documentation on printer “Command 
Sequences” required to produce a compliant 
MaxiCode™ symbology. If questions should arise 
during implementation, please consult your printer 
manual or contact the manufacturer directly for 
clarification.
There are four facts that are critical to the successful 
printing of a MaxiCode™ symbology. 
1) 
Each printer will require unique printer-specific 
commands to produce a MaxiCode™ symbology. 
b) 
Manufacturer may ask for printer control 
commands, the primary message (Postal 
Code, Country Code, Class of Service), the 
secondary message (headers, Tracking 
Numbers, SCAC Code, etc.) and more printer 
control commands. See example A on page 43.

Explanation: Your software will need to send 
printer-specific commands to let the printer 
know you are producing MaxiCode™ output. 
Each printer manufac­
turer and model requires 
different printer-command sequences.
c) 
Manufacturer may ask for printer control 
commands, a rearranged primary message 
(Class of Service, Country Code, Postal 
Code), secondary message (headers, Tracking 
Numbers, SCAC Code, etc.) and more printer 
control commands. See example B on page 44.
2) 
Each printer will represent characters differently. 
Characters can be represented by their ASCII, 
decimal, hexadecimal or printer-specific 
character substitutions.

Explanation: Printer may refer to a “Record 
Separator” character as any of the following: 
Rs or <Rs> or 30 or 1E (hexadecimal one-e 
on the ASCII table) or some other printer-specific 
character string. 
3) 
Printer manufacturers usually refer to the 
MaxiCode™  data string as the primary and 
secondary message. 
Explanation: The primary message data is 
com­
posed of the following three data fields: 
Postal Code, Country Code and Class of 
Service. The secondary message is com­
posed 
of the two headers (ANSI Message Header and 
Transportation Data Format Header) and the 
11 data fields (Tracking Number, SCAC, UPS 
Account Number, Julian Day of Pickup, Shipment 
ID Number, Package Count, Package Weight, 
Address Validation, Street Address, City and 
State), as well as appropriate group separators, 
record separators and end 
of transmission characters. 
54
© 2024  United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
For Customers Located in Asia