Appendix A
MaxiCode™ Specifications
Data Content
The format shown below describes how to incorporate address elements into a MaxiCode™.
	 n	 indicates a Numeric field
	an	 indicates an Alpha/Numeric field
	 a	 indicates an Alphabetic field
	…	 indicates variable-length field
Field Name	
Description	
Type
SHIP TO Postal Code	
(an 1…9)	
Required1
SHIP TO ISO Country Code 	
(n 3) 	
Required2
Class Of Service 	
(n 3)	
Required
Tracking Number	
(an 10)	
Required
UPS SCAC 	
UPSN	
Required
    (Standard Carrier Alpha Code) 
UPS Account Number	
(an 6)	
Required
Julian Day of Pickup	
(n 3)	
Required
Shipment ID Number 	
(an 1…30)	
Optional
Package In Shipment N/X 	
(n 1…3/n 1…3)	
Required3
    (package N of X total packages)
Package Weight	
(n 1…3)	
Required4
Address Validation (Y or N)	
(a 1)	
Required5
SHIP TO Address	
(an 1...35) or (an 1...10<Fs>an1...8)	
Required6
SHIP TO City	
(an 1…20) 	
Required
SHIP TO State/Province	
(a 2)	
Required7
1a
For postal codes that are all numeric – use Mode 2, up to nine characters in length. If greater than 9 characters, truncate from
    the right. Encode the actual postal code without the spaces or special characters - such as the dash (-).
1bFor postal codes containing alphanumeric characters – use Mode 3, up to six characters in length. If greater than 6
      characters, truncate from the right. Encode the actual postal code without the spaces or special characters - such as the dash (-).
***Note: Some label creation software providers and printer manufacturers have interpreted Mode 2 for U.S. destinations and Mode 3 for non-U.S. 
                    destinations   exclusively.
2The International Standards Organization Country codes are located in Appendix E.
3The / character must be encoded to separate the N/X, package in shipment.
4Round up to the next whole pound or kilogram. The minimum weight must be one pound or one kilogram unless the package type is either Letter 
   or Envelope. Leave this field blank for Letters and Envelopes unless the weight is equal to or above the published threshold. Leave this field blank if 
   the weight exceeds the maximum number of characters allowed in the field (for UPS Worldwide Express Freight™ Service)
5This field is set to Y when the delivery address is compared to a USPS CASS-certified database.
6aUse the (an 1...35) format to provide the full street address e.g. 123 MAIN ST.
6bUse the (an 1...10<Fs>an1...8) format to provide a secondary address such as a suite or apartment number.  
      When the (an 1...10<Fs>an1...8) format is used the setting for Address Validation field must be "Y", providing the primary address
      number, the non-printable character Fs, and the secondary address number
7 Some non-U.S. Destinations will not have a state or province.
NOTE: Punctuation is not allowed in the MaxiCode™ data string. UPS Worldwide Express Frieght™ uses pallets instead of packages so these two terms 
              are used interchangeably.
50
© 2024  United Parcel Service of America, Inc. UPS and the UPS brandmark 
are trademarks of United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
UPS Guide to Labeling
For Customers Located in Asia