USER OR ANY SUCH THIRD PARTY.  CLAIMS OF END USER NOT MADE WITHIN SIX (6) MONTHS AFTER THE 
FIRST EVENT GIVING RISE TO A CLAIM SHALL BE DEEMED WAIVED. 
5. 
Term and Termination.  Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time with or without cause upon written notice to 
the other party.   
6. 
General. 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia, United States of 
America, excluding (i) its conflicts of laws principles; (ii) the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International 
Sale of Goods; (iii) the 1974 Convention on the Limitation Period in the International Sale of Goods; and (iv) the Protocol 
amending the 1974 Convention, done at Vienna April 11, 1980.  To the full extent permitted by law, the controlling language 
of this Agreement is English and any translation End User has received has been provided solely for End User’s convenience.  
To the full extent permitted by law, all correspondence and communications between End User and UPS under this 
Agreement must be in the English language.  The exclusive jurisdiction for any action relating to this Agreement shall be a 
federal or state court in Atlanta, Georgia, and the parties consent to such jurisdiction and waive and agree not to plead or 
claim that any such action or proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the 
contrary, UPS shall be entitled to interim relief or provisional remedies before any court having jurisdiction.  End User agrees 
to the admissibility of computer records and electronic evidence in any dispute herein.   
End User may not assign any of its rights or delegate any of its duties under this Agreement without UPS’s prior written 
consent, which consent may be withheld for any reason or no reason, and any attempt to do so shall be void.  UPS may 
assign, delegate or transfer all or part of this Agreement or any rights hereunder without the need for any approval or consent 
from End User.  If one or more provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining 
provisions shall not be affected by such invalid or unenforceable provision.  This Agreement contains the entire agreement of 
the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior written or oral agreements between them with 
respect thereto.  End User represents and warrants that the person accepting this Agreement has full right and authority to 
enter into this Agreement on behalf of End User.  Any remedies provided herein are non-exclusive. 
 
[CONTINUE] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADMIN/12236391v5